README.md, before:

# Room Booking

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/seraogianluca/roombooking/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/seraogianluca/roombooking) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/seraogianluca/RoomBooking.svg?branch=develop_task1)](https://travis-ci.com/seraogianluca/RoomBooking)

A simple JAVA application for the workgroup tasks of the Large-Scale and Multi-Structured Databases course of the Artificial Intelligence and Data Engineering Master Degree at University of Pisa.

## Project documentation
1) [Proposed application, description non experts in the field of computer engineering.](/docs/Design.md#1-introduction)
2) [Main actors of the application and definition of the main functional and nonfunctional requirements.](/docs/Design.md#2-functional-requirements)
3) [UML diagram of the main Use Cases](/docs/Design.md#4-schemas)
4) [UML diagram of the Analysis Classes](/docs/Design.md#4-schemas)
5) [Feasibility Study on the use of a Key-Value Data Storage.](/docs/FeasibilityStudy.md)
6) [Knowledge of how handling one-to-many and many-to-many relationships with JPA.](/docs/Tutorial.md)
7) [Description of the application implementation.](/docs/Implementation.md)
8) [Short manual of usage of the application.](/docs/Manual.md)

## Notes

Please insert the MySQL username and password in the `persistence.xml` file before running.

## Credits

Application designed and developed by Barigliano Lorenzo, Gómez Marsha, Mazzini Matilde, Serao Gianluca.

Commit message:

Little modifications in Design, Feasibility, Tutorial and README docs

README.md, after:

# Room Booking

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/seraogianluca/roombooking/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/seraogianluca/roombooking) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/seraogianluca/RoomBooking.svg?branch=develop_task1)](https://travis-ci.com/seraogianluca/RoomBooking)

A simple JAVA application for the workgroup tasks of the Large-Scale and Multi-Structured Databases course of the Artificial Intelligence and Data Engineering Master Degree at University of Pisa.

## Project documentation
1) [Proposed application description for non experts in the field of computer engineering.](/docs/Design.md#1-introduction)
2) [Main actors of the application and definition of the main functional and nonfunctional requirements.](/docs/Design.md#2-functional-requirements)
3) [UML diagram of the main Use Cases](/docs/Design.md#5-schemas)
4) [UML diagram of the Analysis Classes](/docs/Design.md#5-schemas)
5) [Feasibility Study on the use of a Key-Value Data Storage.](/docs/FeasibilityStudy.md)
6) [Tutorial, usage of JPA report](/docs/Tutorial.md)
7) [Description of the application implementation.](/docs/Implementation.md)
8) [Short manual of usage of the application.](/docs/Manual.md)

## Notes

Please insert the MySQL username and password in the `persistence.xml` file before running.
Also check the path configuration based on your operating system in the [Short manual of usage of the application.](/docs/Manual.md)

## Credits

Application designed and developed by Barigliano Lorenzo, Gómez Marsha, Mazzini Matilde, Serao Gianluca.
